SSL (Secure Sockets Layer) and its successor TLS (Transport Layer Security) are cryptographic protocols designed to secure communication over a computer network. They use encryption to protect the data transmitted between a client (like a web browser) and a server, ensuring confidentiality, integrity, and authentication. SSL/TLS is widely used to secure websites, emails, and other online services, providing a secure and private channel over potentially insecure networks like the internet.


Encrypt data and ensure its
    a) Confidentiality
    b) Integrity
    c) Authentication
between a client and server

Methods:
    a) Confidentiality i- Data is only accessed by client/server and its secured by using encryption.
    b) Integrity - Data is not modified in between and used Hashing for security.
    c) Authentication - Verifying the identity of the parties who they are supposed to be, used certificate for make it secured.


Encryption: Converting plaintext information into a coded form
    a) Symmetric - Fast uses to send large data, not much secure uses same key for encryption and decryption.
    b) Asymmetric - slow suitable for low data transfer, more secure then symmetric as uses different key for encryption and decryption.
    c) Hybrid - combination of symmetric and asymmetric, uses asymmetric key for sending public key to client and uses symmetric to data transfer.

    Algorithms:
        a) Asymmetric - DSA, RSA, ECC, ECDH
        b) Symmetric - AES, 3DES, RC4

Hashing: Hashing is process of converting data into fixed size string of character, as a sequence of number and letter. Also uses secret key to even make it more secure.
    Most common Hashing Algo:
        a) MD5 (Message Digest Algorithms 5) (128bits)
        b) SHA(secure Hash Algorithms) (sha-1, sha-2/3, 224, 256, 384, 512)

Certificate: A Certificate Authority(CA) is trusted organization that issues digital certificated to verify the identity of website and enabled secure, encrypted communication over the internet.

CAs enure the authenticity and integrity of the SSL certificates they provides.